Now we see the usage of the observable here.
We are subscribing to it and we are getting the parameters of the URL or in sign up component.
We have this signup function in user service, which is basically returning the HTP client post.
And in this one, we are subscribing to the the to the response.
Like we take the success response or we take the error response like this.
Now let's practice a bit more and let's get a better understanding about the observable in Angular.
So Angular is using the observables as an interface to handle a variety of common async operations.
Like the module uses the observable to handle requests and responses, or the router or the forms modules
use observables to listen for and response to the user input events.
So the observable is basically whole.
Another topic, but let's see how it is working.
For this demonstration, I will have a dummy implementation.
I'm not going to commit to the course project and let's do that in home component.
So opening the home component.
Yes.
Closing other.
File's here.
So the home component is and home component is HTML opening both of these files.
And here in this component we will practice the observable.
The first thing is let's have buttons in this page so that we can trigger the observable behavior or
we can subscribe to an observable.
And let's start with that.
So first I will have let's say this is a live I will be having the the subscriber part that say this
is the subscriber section and I will have another Dave and this is going to be for the I'm just going
to name it as publisher.
So basically the the the observer and subscriber is like pub sub pattern publish and subscribe.
So we are subscribing to an observable and observable is publishing the data and our subscriber is receiving
those data.
So here let's have a button.
Let's say this is going to be subscribe to observable.
And when we click to this one, we will have a function.
Let's call this what is subscribe?
And that function is here in the home component.
So when we click to this subscribe to Observable, we are going to call subscribe and we will have a
publish button.
So let's say this is publish.
So whenever we click to this one, it's going to be publishing data.
And our subscription will receive that data.
And let's have a click this there.
And this is going to be calling the publish function, which is right here.
Now let's start with the the simplest approach.
So here in this component, we will have the observable, which is basically like this observable.
This is coming from ARGs and it is requiring a type and the type is basically the payload which is going
to be be delivered to the subscribers.
So let's go with a string and the observable constructor is taking the subscriber and we can define
a function here and we can take the let's call this one is sub.
And let's have a variable here subscriber, which is going to be subscriber.
This is again coming from Alex Jazz.
And the subscriber is also a generic type.
And just like the observable, we are going to have the same type of object here.
So the subscriber will be subscribing to the string type of values.
The compiler is complaining that this is not initialized, but we will assign value to it.
So let's add the question mark right here to indicate that we are going to handle this one, to have
the value.
And here in the Observer was a callback right here.
So whenever we we subscribe to this observable, the subscription function will be passed like this
and we can basically set this subscriber to be this sub.
So we are having a reference to the subscriber at this point.
So here in the subscribe function.
So whenever we click to the subscribe button in right here.
We are going to call this one and then we can do like this.
We are going to subscribe to this observable and as a subscription function we can do something like
this.
This is our subscription function and we will get the details of this function.
And let's do like this.
Let's take the data and let's let's let's do like this.
Let's have a variable here.
Let's say it is message.
And initially, let's say there is no message and we are going to update this message with the data
coming from the observable.
So this message is going to be data.
So we are subscribing to this observable and whenever we are receiving a data from that observable,
we are updating this message with that data.
And if we implement a publish, the publisher is going to be interacting with the subscriber and basically
it's going to be calling this subscriber and it has next function and we are going to pass a value to
it.
And the value can be random string like this.
So it's going to be math random and it's multiplied to 100.
So it's going to be string in between zero and 100.
So this is going to be a publishing this value to the subscriber.
So the subscriber is defined right here.
So we have the reference to it, but it's actually defined right here.
And whenever it is called, we are updating the value of the message with the value of data.
So let's save all these changes.
Now we have two buttons.
And let's do one more thing here.
Let's make that message visible.
So right after button, let's have the message here and let's also have a line here, a horizontal line.
So we have the subscribe to observable.
We have this no message and there is this separator line between the subscriber and publish.
These can be separate components, but for simplicity, I'm just doing all the implementation in single
component.
So first thing is we are going to subscribe to Observable.
Then I'm just going to click to publish and here we see the value.
And if I click publish once again.
I see different value because each time I click to the publish.
It is calling this subscriptions next function with a random value.
So I can just click to the publish and generate new value.
So this can be considered like the the let's open the activate component.
So right here we are receiving the params, the URL params and the pages are changing.
And like the the root router module is just calling the next function of our subscription to send the
data to our subscription right here.
So when we are subscribing and observable, we, we basically pass a function which is by default the
next function of the subscription.
But if you remember in sign up component.
Here we are handling the subscription like this.
We were not passing the function, but we were passing an object.
And this object has properties like next.
So this is like the, the, this one.
And it also has this error.
So when we were having success response from this API call, we were handling that part in this next
function.
That's the implementation of the HTP client.
And when the the request is failing with the errors, we are handling that part in the error section
so we can go with similar thing here.
So instead of parsing function like this, we can pass an object and this object can have these three
properties next complete and error.
So the next is next is the one for the success cases.
So we are going to take the data and update the data and let's add the.
That's the complete function.
So.
In this one, we can do something like this.
Let's say we will update the message it is completed.
So let's have another button and let's have complete function here.
Basically, this one is going to call the subscriber
and it's complete function.
And let's have another button here.
This is complete, complete saving all these changes.
So hitting subscribe now the subscription is ready and when I click publish here I am receiving the
random values.
As I click publish, I receive a new one and if I click complete.
Now I see this completed because this complete is being run.
And after this point, if I click publish, I receive nothing because that subscription is completed.
So this is one of the options in the subscription.
And the other one is, let's add that error.
And in this one we are going to receive the error.
And basically let's update the message with the error message and.
Here.
Let's have the error function.
We will let the error button as well.
So we are going to call the subscriber and error and we can pass a new error object.
Let's say this is dummy error and let's add corresponding button.
So having this error button, calling the error function, saving these changes and we have the error
button, let's subscribe.
Clicking publish we are receiving data and if I click the error now we are seeing this dummy error.
So that's the, the third property of the subscription and it's working like this.
And if I click the publish after this one, it's also ending up with the complete case because the subscription
is either completes with the complete or error case.
Otherwise let's reload this and let's subscribe once again.
If it's not complete or error, it will be always in subscription mode and it will always be receiving
the messages from the the publish part.
So like the subscription is working like this, but we may sometimes need only one data to be pulled
from this subscription.
So like, let's show that one as well.
So instead of calling the subscriber immediately, we can do something like this, this observable,
and we can use the pipe function.
So pipe is basically going to take the data whenever we receive one.
And in this pipe, we can do different things.
And previously, we have seen one of the users in this unique email with the data right here.
So here we are calling this user service.
Is email taken?
And then this is an API because using the typical end and we are subscribing to it and here we are using
the pipe.
And in the pipe we do two things.
We either like handle the, the success case and map the the response actual data to something else
like this.
We don't care about the response data coming from backend.
All we do is just return this thing.
If if this is the success case, then we are fine.
That means the unique email is failing.
Then we should be showing unique email validation error.
But if that is a failed case, which means we receive an error, then we handle that error right here.
And then we are just returning another observable by this of a factory method.
And basically we are just returning now back to the to the validator.
And that is just saying there is no validation error.
So we can use pipe here and we can use another one like first.
And the first is it's coming from the.
First is just taking the first.
And then we can subscribe to this and we can do like this.
Take the data and update this message with the data.
So let's save this one and let's try this one.
So subscribing to the observable and clicking publish, we receive data clicking publish again and again.
But we are not receiving any more data because we are just taking only the first data and the subscription
is ending after that one.
Or we can do something like this.
We can use the map and take the value and return a value like this.
Let's add maybe we can add something like this to the value.
I'm just going to import the map.
So it's going to be opening this dashes and it's also add those after that as well.
Let's save this.
So subscribing.
Publish.
And here we can see there are dashes before and after the data.
So the pipe functionality is allowing us to intercept the data.
Then we can have more control on our subscription.
So this is how the observable is working.
Again, I'm not going to go into too much details and this is just for the demonstration.
And this would be making more sense about the.
The subscription we are using right here.
So whenever the URL is changing, our subscription is receiving the data and the underlying behavior
is like this.
There is an observable and we are passing a subscriber and the service having that observable is basically
accessing to the subscription subscriber and passes data to it whenever it's inner logic requires that
new data to be published.
So I'm leaving it at this point and I'm just going to undo these changes, so I'm not going to commit
those.
And in the next one we are going to add the test for the activation.
And at the moment we have a failure in the test and we are going to fix that one as well.
And we will interact with the observable behavior in those tests to have the navigation like changes
in the activation component.